# Final Project of Biomedical Computing Course

For our final project, we will be analyzing and creating a classification model for this “Sleep Health and Lifestyle” dataset. This dataset is comprised of 400 instances and 13 features including Person ID, Gender, Age, Occupation, Sleep Duration, Quality of Sleep, Physical Activity, Stress Level, BMI Category, Blood Pressure, Heart Rate, Daily Steps, and Sleep Disorder. We will mainly be focusing on the last feature, Sleep Disorder, and its relationship with the other features in hopes to identify the key factors involved in common sleep disorders such as insomnia and sleep apnea. Additionally, this project will help provide a holistic understanding of sleep health; that is, it will allow for an exploration of how daily habits and physical health might influence an individual’s sleeping habits, which is essential for developing solutions that will help improve sleep health.

Sleep is one of the essential necessities in life and is heavily impacted from person to person based on various factors (age, occupation, etc.). Analyzing this dataset is beneficial for everyone and introduces possible sleep behavior and pattern concerns. It will bring awareness to potential sleep disorders they relate to and seek ways to improve it. However, when it comes to analyzing this dataset, a possible ethical concern is bias and representation. Since this dataset has specific features like age, gender, and occupation, it is important to consider various scenarios that are inclusive and specific.
Our target audience are people with sleep disorders like insomnia, narcolepsy, restless leg syndrome (RLS) and sleep apnea. Insomnia is an inability to initiate or maintain sleep; narcolepsy is excessive daytime sleepiness and often combined with sudden muscle weakness;

RLS is a condition that causes an irresistible urge to move the legs, often in evenings; sleep apnea is characterized by repeating pause of breathing when in sleep, which is more common in men. Sleep is not only important to recover our body from the daytime activity, but also there are numerous diseases caused by sleep and some of them are life-threatening. Besides, we would like to consider college students as our target audience, since the majority of them have irregular sleep schedules and often stay up all night due to school work. By analyzing this data, we could observe the most important factors that affect quality of sleep and inform the audience about our results. Furthermore, the audience can take consideration of these factors and improve quality of life in general by having better sleep. 
